Good morning!
I hope you all are
having a good day so far.
Welcome to Publishing
with the iBookstore.
My name is Kristi Gillis.
I've worked in publishing
for more than 10 years,
and at Apple, my team manages worldwide
publisher support.
It is absolutely a pleasure
to be with you guys this
morning to talk about books.
Publishing with the iBookstore is
the first of five presentations
about books at this year's WWDC.
In the next hour,
we're going to focus on four
key areas of the book business.
First, iBooks and what's technically
possible with books.
Second, we're going to talk about how you
get started with the iBookstore.
Third, we'll talk about delivering
books to the bookstore.
And what you can expect from
the book approval process.
And finally, last but not least,
we're going to talk about how you market
your books and reach your readers.
It's my hope that at
the end of this hour,
you're going to leave inspired by the
possibilities of books and determined
to become a bookseller with us.
Because publishing is big business.
In 2010, publishers based in the
United States grossed $27.9 billion.
Now, it used to be that to grab a piece
of this pie and to participate in
the publishing space required a
tremendous amount of fiscal investment.
You needed to have a printing
press to print your books.
And when your books were ready to go,
you needed to have some tractor
trailers to go and to pick them all up.
Then, they needed to go to your
physical distribution center,
so you needed to have a warehouse
to hold all of your books.
Then, when a customer placed an order,
you would need to have someone to pick,
pack, and ship those books.
They need to get on another truck and
make their way across the country.
Sometimes they'd even
need to ride on a boat.
And then they find their way
onto the shelves in a bookshop,
where hopefully someone found them,
fell in love with them,
and took them home.
Because if not,
they could begin making their way
back to you as inventory returns.
They get back onto another truck,
and they come back to
your distribution center.
This is sort of the old way.
I'm very happy to say
that times have changed.
Now to publish all you need
is a great idea and a Mac.
The iBookstore ecosystem
begins with iBooks.
iBooks is Apple's
revolutionary app for readers.
So it enables readers to look
at books that contain video,
audio, and even interactivity.
Readers are able to actually
work within the books themselves.
iBooks also allows readers to design
their own libraries of content.
And you can see here, here's my shelf.
This is, I've named it Kristi's shelf.
Pretty creative name.
But if, like me,
maybe you want to put your cookbooks on
one shelf and your novels on another,
you're able to do that.
You're able to build
collections of books.
And then as a reader,
when you need more content,
you simply click through the
app directly to the iBooks store
where you can browse our holdings
and make additional purchases.
Now yesterday in the keynote address,
Tim shared with us that there are
400 million App Store customers.
These are App Store customers
with credit cards on file.
And what I'm delighted to say
this morning is that these are
also iBooks store customers.
These are readers who are here,
they're in the store,
and they're waiting for your books.
So let's get into it.
So let's get into how we reach them.
And to get us started,
we want to start with iBooks and
talk about the books themselves.
So to lead us in that discussion,
I'd like to introduce Al Canestraro,
head of iBooks Engineering,
to tell us about books.
Hi, everybody.
I'm the engineering manager for iBooks,
the application.
We've been working really hard for the
last two years to make the most fully
featured book reader on the planet.
And what I want to show you
today is a little bit of a story.
What I want to show you today are
some of the ways that you can enhance
your book to make them stand out on
the iBooks store and make a great
way for you to reach your customers.
So I want to show you three
different book types today.
The first book type is
called a flowing book.
And it's probably the one
you're most familiar with.
It contains mostly text but
can be enhanced in ways that
were impossible with print.
The second book type
is a fixed layout book.
And those are perfect if you're starting
with a layout or you're starting with an
aspect ratio that you need to respect.
And it's backed by WebKit.
So you can do things like animations
and interaction and JavaScript,
which of course you can't do with print.
And the last book type I'm going to show
you today is called a multi-touch book.
And these are created with the
amazing iBooks Author app on the Mac.
And they're the fastest way and the
easiest way for you to go from a concept
in your head to a finished book to
something you're selling on the store.
So let's take a look right now.
So this is my bookshelf.
Not quite as extravagant as Kristi's.
We're going to first look
at The Hobbit by J.R.R.
Tolkien.
It's a flowing book.
When I tap on it, it opens up to the last
page I was reading,
or in this case,
it's my first time opening it,
so it's the first page of text.
If I tap the page,
I can show and hide the controls.
If I tap on the edges of the pages,
I can actually turn the page,
or we have a beautiful page curl that
tracks my finger if I want to drag.
Now, a flowing book is really about
making the reading experience
great for the customer.
So we've added a lot of customization.
If I tap on the A's in
the top right corner,
you'll see a set of customization
options for the user.
I can make the text bigger.
or smaller.
I can even change the fonts.
If I tap on the fonts button,
here's an example of Cerevec,
which is a really slick modern
font that we ship with the app.
I'll show you a page with text.
Or if you prefer a more classic look,
Back to the fonts menu,
I can tap on Athalos,
which is a really classic
book reading font.
We can also change the theme.
So let's say you're reading in bed.
And you want to get rid of the backlight.
You want the text to stand out.
If I tap on night mode...
The page goes black and
just the text stands out.
Or sepia if you like a
warmer background color.
We can even go full screen.
If you're the kind of reader
that wants to get rid of all
the distractions on the page,
let's go into full screen mode and
you'll see the book trim goes away,
and there's nothing on the
page but the text itself.
So of course, just like print books,
let's go to the next page,
we can include images in a book.
But what we can do here
that you can't do in print,
if I double tap, I can actually pop that
image out of the book,
zoom in and look at all the detail,
scroll around.
If I double tap, it goes back.
And then I can actually
I can add bookmarks by tapping on the
bookmark button in the top right corner.
So let's look at the table of contents.
So if I go, if I tap on the table of
contents button in the top left,
it takes me to a page that has the entire
structure of the book under contents.
It also lets me view
my bookmarks and notes.
Let's go take a look at a bookmark
that I've taken previously.
So this takes us to a page
that has embedded audio in it.
This is where you can
take books beyond print.
In this case,
the publisher actually chose
to include clips of J.R.R.
Tolkien himself singing
the songs from The Hobbit.
So let's hit play and hear how it sounds.
Chip the glasses and crack the blades,
blunt the knives and bend the forks.
That's what Bill Burbaggins hates,
smash the bottles and burn the corks.
That's pretty cool.
If you're a Hobbit fan,
you know that the book
is filled with songs,
and now you can actually understand
how he meant them to sound.
I'm not going to demo much
more on the flowing book,
but I want to tell you that
there's a lot more available.
So VoiceOver, for example,
iBooks is fully accessible,
just like the rest of the iPad.
Visually impaired users can have
their book read to them by the iPad,
but it relies on you as a content
producer to make sure that
you're doing things like adding
alt tags to your images or
closed captioning to your videos.
And a couple weeks ago we
announced something great.
In the last few months we've been
working on adding EPUB3 support,
and we're the first reader
to announce EPUB3 support,
support for the new
standard inside of iBooks.
Thanks.
So along with this comes a
number of new features as well.
One of them is inline footnotes.
So if you want to add a footnote
to your text and not take people
out of their reading context,
you can do that.
And you get this little pop over
that comes up and shows you the,
the footnote that you want to,
to point out.
Or physical page numbers.
So let's say I'm in class and the
teacher has assigned me The Hobbit,
and she says turn to page 55.
Well, it doesn't matter what font
size or font I'm reading at,
I can still get to page 55 by tapping
on the search button and typing 55.
And we've also added the ability
to have online video and audio.
So if you want to host additional
pieces of content on the Internet,
you can still make those
available inside the book itself.
So that, that is a flowing book.
The next type of book I want to show you
is called a fixed layout book.
So let's go back to the library
and take a look at that now.
So fixed layout books are perfect
when you want to start with an
aspect ratio or a particular layout.
This is perfect for things
like children's books or
cookbooks or picture books.
I'm going to tap on the second book
called Ellie's Lost and Found Sounds.
So as it opens up,
you'll see some controls at the top,
but what's more interesting
is if you look at the page,
there's actually
animations happening here.
Like I said,
this is completely backed by WebKit,
so anything you can do
with CSS animations,
JavaScript, gestures and interactivity
is all available to you
inside of a picture book.
This text is even selectable.
So in this case,
the publisher included fonts
with their book and shipped them.
If I double tap on the word "followed,"
you'll see it's actually live text.
Now there's several elements on this
page that are interactive as well.
So you'll see Ellie on the left here
is kind of growing and shrinking,
and there's a little button
that says tap to hear Ellie.
So let's tap her.
It's kind of a sigh or
a groan or something.
On the right page there's a
few other interactive elements,
so let's tap on those.
And they each make sounds.
There's even a bee that I can drag,
and as I drag it, it makes a sound,
and I can drop it off anywhere I want.
So cute stuff.
Now there's another feature
in Read Aloud Books,
sorry,
in fixed layout books called Read Aloud,
that we introduced actually
right here last year at WWDC.
And that allows you to include a narrated
voice along with the book that reads
the words on the page to the reader.
If I tap on the page to
bring up the controls,
you'll see an audio
button in the top right.
If I tap on that, we have some options.
There's a big start reading button there.
When I tap that,
notice that each of the words are going
to be lit up on the page as it's spoken.
One day, Ellie followed a sound.
We can scrub to another page,
and the book will
actually continue reading.
She discovered that sounds can
be like keyholes to other worlds.
So this is a fixed layout book.
There's one other thing I want to point
out about this book in particular,
is that the author that created this
book actually started by building apps.
And what they found is that all of
the features that they were looking
for in interactivity inside an app was
available to them inside of a book.
And they were having a little bit of
trouble getting noticed in the app store.
But as soon as they made a book
that stands out as much as this one,
they've become very successful with it.
So back to our library.
There's one last book type
that I'd like to show you,
and that's a multi-touch book.
Now, we launched these in January,
along with the amazing iBooks
Author app that allows you to
create a book from scratch and
publish it straight to the store.
We focus on textbooks and education.
But what we've found over the
last few months is that people
have created some amazing things
that went beyond our expectations.
This last book I'm going to
show you is "American Grown" by
none other than Michelle Obama.
When I tap it, it opens up.
And it goes straight into
a beautiful intro movie.
Now, when I swipe left and right
in a multi-touch book,
I'm actually navigating
each of the chapters.
or down at the bottom I can
swipe to get through each of the
individual pages in a chapter.
If I pinch on any page,
I can zoom it in to full screen.
And you get these beautiful layouts.
One of the other really cool features in
these is if you want to highlight text,
I can actually just use
my finger as a highlight.
No tools.
I just press down on any piece of text.
Oops.
Press down on any piece of
text and start highlighting.
If I then tap that highlight,
I can change the color or add a note.
This book is cool.
Now, what makes multi-touch
books really amazing are the
widgets that you can embed.
On the right here,
we have an example of an image gallery.
Now, if you've used iBooks Author before,
you'll have noticed that it's
extremely easy to create these things.
You just drag your images in,
and this piece of content
is created for you.
So if I pinch to zoom
in to the image gallery,
I get a full-screen image as
I swipe with the captions and the
thumbnails down at the bottom.
As I swipe through each image,
I can see it in full screen.
And when I pinch to zoom back out,
the last image I was looking at
is now shown in the book itself.
Now, that's just the beginning.
I'm going to show you some of
the things that they've done with
this book that are pretty amazing.
I'm going to go to some
bookmarks that I've made.
So this is a page that's a gallery
of some of the widgets that
they've included in this book.
We're going to first look at time lapse.
There should be no surprise that we,
of course, allow you to include audio and
video in a multi-touch book.
Here's a time lapse of
the White House garden.
Pinch to zoom back out.
If I go to the previous page,
there's a couple more.
This one's an HTML,
interactive HTML widget.
And here's a dial that gives
me some ideas about how to save
money and cook my own food.
Here's one.
Have a plan.
Plan my meals for the week before
I head to the grocery store.
I actually do that.
That's a good one.
It saves me from spending
money at fast food.
So let's close this one.
I want to show you one last widget
here that actually blew me away.
I never even considered that
this was possible in a book.
But we'll tap on the Twitter feed.
And here's a live Twitter feed
right inside the book.
So that is a multi-touch book.
Those are the three different types
of books available to you in iBooks.
Think about which one
is appropriate for you.
But what I want to encourage
you to do is create books,
sell them in the iBookstore,
and extend your reach.
Show the world that the next
great story is interactive.
Thank you.
Thank you, Al.
So now that you've had the
opportunity to see a little bit
about what's possible with iBooks
and with the books themselves,
let's delve into distribution
and get back to those 400 million
readers and talk about how we're
going to connect with them.
The iBookstore exists on the iPod Touch,
the iPhone, the iPad, and also within the
iTunes desktop client.
So regardless of your
reader's browsing preference,
they're able to peruse the store
and find the content that they want.
I've spent a lot of time
working with publishers,
and I know that they face distribution
challenges every single day.
My team's job, and honestly,
my job here today and at the conference,
is to make sure that I'm alleviating
those challenges so that you can
bring your books to market quickly
and efficiently with no pain at all.
So,
we really want to focus on four key areas
of the distribution process this morning:
getting started,
the book submission and approval process,
book submission best practices, I mean,
we want to make sure that you have
some key takeaways from this session
to guide you through the book business,
and finally, marketing your books.
And I'd like to start talking
about distribution with the story
that is one of my favorite stories
of my time at the iBookstore.
And this is a story about the government
of New South Wales and Australia.
And a particular distribution
challenge that they faced.
They needed to provide educational
materials to farmers located
in remote areas of the outback.
Now, some of these farmers live hundreds
of miles from the nearest physical
bookstore or from a library.
So, that team really faced
a difficult challenge.
How could they get this
information to those who needed it?
They decided that digital books
provided the medium that they
needed to reach the farmers.
And then, so they created these fantastic
books that look really beautiful.
And then, they leveraged the power of the
iBookstor to actually get the
content to those who needed it.
And ultimately,
their distribution strategy
didn't just stop with Australia.
They began selling their content into
other markets throughout the world,
including the United States,
so that farmers worldwide now
have access to this content.
And they were able to do that because
the iBookstor is a global marketplace.
There are 32 iBooksstores open worldwide,
including Australia.
So, whether,
like the team in New South Wales,
you have a specific challenge that
you need to face where you need to
reach a remote corner of a country,
or maybe your novel is really fantastic
and you want to make sure that readers
in Spain are able to read and enjoy it,
the iBookstor has a solution for you.
So, how do you get started?
Let's talk about that.
That seems important.
Like, what's the first step?
First, sign up for the store.
Then write and create your content.
Now, it may seem counterintuitive
that I'm telling you,
don't start with book creation.
Start by signing up for the store.
But I have a very specific
reason to ask you to do this.
And that's because,
as a publisher with the iBookstore,
you gain access to book creation
resources that Apple doesn't
make available anywhere else.
So within iTunes Connect,
I think many of you probably know
iTunes Connect from your developer work.
There also is a version of
iTunes Connect for booksellers.
And that's where we include a
lot of fantastic information.
And I want to focus on three
key resources this morning.
The first is our iBookstore Asset Guide.
I think of this guide as the
blueprint to great book design.
This is where we include
everything we know about building
beautiful books for iBooks.
So maybe you want to design
a great flowing book,
like The Hobbit that you saw earlier.
And you want to include
some audio or some video.
The specifications for doing
that are included in this guide.
Maybe you really want to
create a children's book.
And you want to design
something like Ellie.
You want to go the path of fixed layout.
Again, the Asset Guide is your source
for the specs that you need.
We also include information
on some things about the
way the storefront works.
For example, you've probably seen book
samples in the iBookstore.
We tell you how we create those
in the iBookstore Asset Guide.
It's a fantastic guide.
Definitely, you need to download it
and take a look at it.
The second resource are samples.
We give away two EPUB samples
in iTunes Connect.
And we also give away a
JavaScript library that's
specially designed for iBooks.
Now, you saw some flowing books.
You saw fixed layout.
Know that we have a sample of both.
So if, like me, you learn by doing,
make sure that you
download those samples.
Open them up.
Look at the code.
Immerse yourself in the best
practices for book design.
And finally,
last but certainly not least,
I want to introduce you to BookProofer.
BookProofer is a Mac app that
was designed by Al's team,
so designed by our
iBooks engineering team,
especially for our book partners.
And what it does is it helps you
proof your EPUBs and essentially test
on devices as you're coding them.
And I want to take you through
a little bit of how that looks.
So here's Ellie,
and you can see here I have
Ellie on BookProofer on my Mac,
and I'm ready to test,
and my iPad is tethered to my Mac.
Maybe I would also want
to test later on my phone,
tether the phone to the device.
So I place my EPUB of
Ellie into BookProofer.
What iBooks will do is it'll create
a proof of the book on my bookshelf.
And you can see here there's a banner
going across the upper right-hand
corner of the cover to tell me
that this is the proof of my book.
So to open the proof,
you simply click into the book
and open it like any other book.
And then you'll see your
book render within iBooks.
So what's great is as
you're tweaking your HTML,
you're changing up your CSS,
you're able to see real-time what effect
those changes are having on your book.
So certainly,
certainly take advantage of BookProofer.
So to sort of wrap up the
getting started process,
now we've talked about some
of the key resources you need.
I just want to touch briefly on
what you need to go through our
signup flow and to get started.
First thing to say is signup is free.
You start with a one-year initial term,
and we have some options
for auto-renewal thereafter.
You do need an iTunes Store account
or Apple ID to get started,
and as developers,
I want to make sure that you guys know
that this needs to be a unique ID.
It can't be the same as what
you use today in the App Store.
And last, you need a U.S.
tax ID.
This is what we do to verify that
you are who you say you are as you
go through our application flow.
And that's getting started.
It's really that simple.
So now that you have an agreement,
you're starting to design your content,
I want to talk about the book
submission and approval process.
We're going to spend a lot
of time talking about this
because it's absolutely
critical for our book partners.
I think that when you get into the
delivery process for books and you
start focusing on submitting your book,
it's easy to get lost in the details.
And what I mean by that is
you're working with XML.
You're thinking about things like image
dimensions and sizes and specifications.
But what I really want to
say this morning to you guys
is at the end of the day,
your job when delivering a book is to
build a really compelling product page.
You want to tell your readers what's
special about that book that you design
so that they click through and buy it.
So to talk about this a little bit more,
I wanted to show you guys the
product page for American Grown,
which Al demoed earlier.
Now, there are two things that
Random House has done here that
I really want to call to your attention.
The first is the book description.
You have about 2,000 characters for
your description with the iBookstore.
Don't simply write,
"This is my great book." I mean,
I think all of us think
our books are great,
right?
Tell me what's really
special about the book.
Use those characters.
Build out that real estate on the page
so that readers are drawn in and know
what to expect when they buy your book.
If you look at the leading sentence here,
Random House leads off by telling us that
this book is about our children's health.
Now, that sounds really important to me.
It draws me in.
I want to know more.
I want to explore further.
And they've also shown me what's
special about the book with screenshots.
Screenshots are a relatively
new feature of the iBookstore.
They launched in January of this year,
and I know you guys know
them from the App Store,
so you're already a
little bit ahead here.
But, you know, if your book has video,
it has audio, it has interactivity,
show the readers what
they can expect to find.
And then that way,
they're enticed to buy,
they may even skip the sample process
and go directly to that buy button.
Make sure that you're really
focused on your product page.
So you may be thinking, well,
that's great, Kristi,
but how do I actually do that?
So let's talk about the actual
technical pieces of this.
Starting with metadata.
I sometimes feel like metadata
is one of the less glamorous
aspects of delivering content.
Maybe no one gets that excited about it,
but I'm here to tell you that
it's a big foundation for having
a fantastic-looking product page.
And actually,
metadata errors are the number
one source of delivery issues that
I see in publisher-supported Apple.
So make sure that you don't get
caught by any of those pitfalls.
And so let's start out by talking
about using proper casing.
It's a bookstore.
You want to make sure that
you're using great grammar.
If your book's in German,
capitalize your words the way
that you should do in German.
If it's in English,
follow good rules for English.
choose an appropriate
subject or store genre.
So if you've written a really creepy,
gory, really scary horror novel,
don't put it in the kids'
section of the store.
Because one, as a parent,
I'm probably not that excited about my
child being frightened by your creation.
And two, as a reader of horror,
I really wanted to be scared tonight,
and I can't find your book because
I'm not looking in the kids'
section for Bram Stoker's Dracula or
for your version of Dracula.
So help us merchandise your book.
Tell us where it fits in the store,
and we're going to show
you how to do that.
Identify the language of your book.
If I want to read your book in Spanish,
I need to know that it's in Spanish.
If I want to read in French,
I need to know that it's in French.
It's that simple.
Write a comprehensive
description for your book.
We've talked a little bit
about this with American Grown.
Definitely tell us what's there
and what makes the book special.
Include target audience data.
So what we mean here is that we
want you to tell us the age group
that's appropriate for the content.
So there is a big
difference between Ellie,
who you saw earlier,
a children's picture book, and Twilight,
which is a young adult
novel about teen vampires,
and I think everyone's
pretty familiar with that.
You know,
make sure that as we're merchandising,
we know what kind of book you've sent us.
Provide series detail.
If you're writing books in a series,
make sure that I know where to start,
that I know the order of the series.
I would have been pretty disappointed
if I had started with Sookie
Stockhouse book number four,
because a lot of surprises
would have been ruined for me.
Make sure that you're telling us
about your series information.
And finally, proofread everything
before you send it to us.
Make sure that that data is flawless,
because you want to be beautifully
represented in the store.
And that's metadata.
So let's talk about images,
marketing image.
This is the front cover
image of your book,
and it's required for
delivery to the store.
So you have to send us one of these.
Now, there are some technical
specifications for this,
specific file types and sizes
that you need to adhere to.
But what I want to make sure that
you're thinking about is having
a really attention-grabbing,
beautiful cover for your book.
When I'm going through the search
results in the iBookstore as a reader,
and I'm thinking about
what I want to read next,
grab me with your art.
Make me want to go into that product
page and see what your book has to offer.
And again, screenshots.
You need to take
advantage of screenshots.
These are fantastic for
highly illustrated text.
You can give us up to five per book,
and you can order them
any way you'd like.
So you can tell us the story of
the book and bring your reader in.
Draw them in by telling them
the story with screenshots.
And finally, you need to give us a book.
It would be a little bit hard for someone
to read your book if we didn't have it.
We work with two file
formats in the iBook store,
and I'll show you both
of those earlier today.
First, we have multi-touch books,
and these are books
created with iBooks Author.
Second, we have EPUB, including EPUB 3.
Now, as you're designing your books,
you're going to be using those creation
tools that we talked about earlier,
but you need to bring a strong
editorial eye to your content.
I mean,
what kind of book are you writing?
If you're writing a novel,
maybe an EPUB flowing
book is perfect for you.
But if you're creating a
highly interactive textbook,
chances are you need the widgets
offered by iBooks Author,
and you'll want to use
that to create your book.
Now, we believe that book creation and
design is such a deep topic that we've
dedicated four additional sessions
at this year's conference to it.
So we'll talk a little bit about
those at the end of the session,
but I just want to mention, now, I mean,
this is not all that you're going to
get in the world of book creation.
So once you've got everything together,
you've built your package, please test.
You guys are developers.
I know you know how to test things
before you deliver them to us,
but we wanted to focus a little
bit on some of the best practices
we can recommend for testing books
before you deliver them to the store.
So first, test on devices.
You want to make sure, you know,
take a walk in that reader's shoes.
Make sure the book functions as intended.
Make sure that you're looking at it
from both the portrait orientation
and also the landscape orientation,
so that as your reader,
I have a great experience regardless
of how I like to use my device.
Use BookProofer to test your EPUBs,
and also look at iBooks Author's
preview feature for multi-touch books.
Take advantage of the tools we
give you so that testing is easy.
If you need to make a change to a
file after you've delivered it to us,
please do regression testing.
I mean, I know you guys do this
every day with your apps.
It's really no different from books.
If you make a change
in part A of your book,
make certain that you didn't break
something further down the line.
And finally,
think about navigation for books.
There is a table of
contents feature in iBooks.
You need to make sure that your book
is constructed so that as a reader,
I'm able to easily navigate
through your content.
Also, make sure your links work.
Don't take me to a dead end.
It's really that simple.
You always, always need to develop
with your reader in mind.
So today,
we wanted to give you a few of our
recommendations for how you can do that.
Beginning with accessibility.
Both the iOS and iBooks have a
ton of features to enable really
accessible content on Apple devices.
You should make sure that anyone
who wants to read your book
has the ability to do that.
The iBooks or asset guide talks a
lot about EPUB and how you can make
sure your EPUBs are accessible.
iBooks author comes with built-in
options to allow you to create accessible
features in a multi-touch book.
Take advantage of this.
File size.
So your books can be up
to two gigabytes in size.
But just because you can do it doesn't
necessarily mean that you should.
As you're adding video, audio,
sort of heavy elements,
really take a strong editorial approach.
You don't want to be a blind eye to
whether they really make the book.
Because you don't know where someone's
going to be downloading that book.
They may not have a fantastic connection.
Really think about file size and think
about your reader as you build your book.
Fingers.
So it may seem strange
to see fingers up here.
But this goes back to interactive books.
Now, if I'm a child who just got Ellie,
you know, my motor skills may not
be as developed as ours.
So think about that as you're
designing hot zones for your books.
Length.
Length should work.
That's really -- that's it.
Speed.
The iBooks or asset guide offers a
lot of guidance about how you can
have a book that performs really
efficiently and quickly on the device.
Make sure that you're taking
advantage of all of those places
to improve book performance.
It can be as simple as
substituting a JPEG for a PNG.
It can be really that easy.
Text.
They're books.
We get a lot of complaints when
books have misspelled words.
Or bad grammar.
Or maybe the text is
overlapping on pages.
Your QC process and your
development process needs to
be really focused on the text.
And finally, zoom.
This is about image quality.
Our devices are capable of
rendering art beautifully.
Make sure that when someone's
pinching and zooming,
as Al showed you, that the image doesn't
become blurry or pixelated.
Make sure that your reader is having
a really great experience with images.
So once you deliver your book to us,
you've gone through all of these steps,
you've thought carefully
about your reader,
your book will go through
quality control at Apple.
Every book goes through review.
And it's a pretty simple process.
We put the book on an iPad.
We test it.
If you have widgets,
we're going to test them.
We're going to make sure that they work.
If we find anything wrong,
we'll issue a ticket to you.
You can get tickets by email.
You can also access
them in iTunes Connect,
as you see here in step two.
There's a ticket history module that
will list out all of this information.
If something goes wrong,
all you need to do to get
yourself back in a review queue
is to re-deliver the book.
And again,
make sure you've tested the book again
end-to-end before you re-submit to us.
When it comes back in,
we're going to put it on an iPad again.
We'll check it out.
If everything's okay,
it goes right out to the store for sale,
as you see pictured here in step four.
Now,
thinking about the book approval process,
it seems only fitting that we should
share with you some of the top
reasons why we see books rejected.
We really wanted to make sure that we
gave you guys some great best practices.
One, omitting the custom preview from
multi-touch books and read-allowed books.
Some of our more complex formats
require our book partners to
provide the sample that the
customer receives from the store.
Two, making sure that you're looking
at the requirements in the asset
guide and that if you need to
deliver one of these books,
make sure you're providing a sample.
Book image is larger
than 2 million pixels.
So Al touched a little
bit about WebKit and how
WebKit interacts with iBooks.
To make sure that your
book functions correctly,
we need to make sure that the
interior images of the book are
smaller than 2 million pixels.
If you send in images larger than that,
we'll actually reject them
at the time of delivery.
and complete table of contents.
Again, book navigation is key.
If there are 50 chapters in the book,
make sure that the table of
contents shows me 50 chapters.
Don't just give me one or two.
As a reader, I'm going to be pretty
dissatisfied with that experience.
Incorrect subject or
classification schema.
Well, you'll see a little bit more
about this in a few moments.
But again, help us merchandise your book.
If it's a cookbook,
tell us it's a cookbook.
If it's a sci-fi novel,
tell us it's a sci-fi novel.
Poor image quality.
We've touched about this a little bit.
Make sure your images look great.
Misusing Apple trademarks.
I mean, this is pretty simple.
Just make sure you're aware of the rules
for using any Apple trademarked names.
Compound authors and metadata.
This is a really common one.
So if Al and I were to
write a book together,
the author wouldn't be Kristi
and Al smushed together in
one field in the metadata.
I should get my own billing,
and Al should get his own.
You want to make sure that you tell us
who contributed to that work clearly.
Asset mismatch.
This is pretty simple as well.
Make sure that the
jacket that you give us,
the marketing image you give us,
matches the book file itself.
False advertising.
Don't promise the reader something
they're not going to get.
They get upset by that,
and it results in customer
complaints and sometimes refunds.
So you want to make certain that you
give them exactly what you've promised.
And finally,
incorrect language and metadata.
We've talked a lot about language,
but the iBookstore is global.
We need to know what language
that book is prepared in.
So this is a lot to take in,
and what we wanted to do
this morning is show you just
how to put it into practice.
So to do that,
I'd like to introduce Ryan Lynch,
our global operations
manager for the iBookstore,
and he's going to take us
through delivering a book.
Thank you, Kristi.
So I'm going to talk about delivering
and managing your books in the
iBookstore with our two tools,
iTunes Producer,
an OSX app for managing delivery,
and then iTunes Connect,
which I think most of you are already
familiar with for managing your content
after you've delivered it to us.
So first, iTunes Producer.
So I've already loaded
it up here on my Mac.
And you'll notice here that I've got four
main options for creating my content.
The first is opening a package.
So I'd do that.
I'd open a book that I've already created
or already delivered so that I can
update it and re-deliver it to the store.
The second is I can create a new
package or a new book from scratch.
So I can do that either one at
a time with the new book or,
on the other side, new from a file.
So iTunes Producer gives you
the ability to deliver 10,
20, 50 books at the same time if
you want via a spreadsheet.
And that is available in the
File menu of iTunes Producer.
I'm not going to walk you
through that right now,
but if you do choose this path,
be sure that you fill it out
completely and exactly as it is
demoed in the sample document.
The last option is looking up metadata.
So if you've already delivered
a book to the bookstore,
you can use your Apple ID,
which is the identifier of
the book that we assign,
your vendor ID or ISBN.
You put it in here,
it'll pull down a metadata that
we actually have on the server.
You can make updates and
then re-deliver that to us.
For the purposes of this demo,
I'm going to open a package
that I've already created.
So here we are.
You'll notice that it's divided
into three main sections.
The first is the book metadata.
The second is the assets or the EPUB and
the files and that kind of thing.
And the third is the
validation and delivery step.
So we're going to start with the book.
So I just want to point
out a couple things.
Most of this is fairly self-explanatory.
But here, the publisher name,
the publisher is the seller that we
actually show in the bookstore itself.
So we don't put imprint in the store.
If you want your name to be E.O.
Wilson, you want your name to
be Ryan Lynch Books,
Inc., make sure you put that
there and that's what the customer
will see in the store itself.
As Kristi said,
series name is quite important.
That actually helps us understand
where to market your book and how
to market your book in the store.
So if it is part of a series,
please provide that to us.
And finally on this,
I want to touch on the description.
So Kristi said make a good description.
Well, that's really quite important,
but here you can use things like italics,
bold.
It doesn't take HTML.
So put in as much as you
can and make it as nice.
It's a standard text editor.
So let's move on to the next tab here,
categories.
These are the subject categories
that Kristi touched on.
I need to add one to my book,
and so I have an option of one of
three subject category systems.
These are ones that are used in
the book industry by standard.
So BISAC is for North America,
BIC is for UK and Australia,
and CLEEL is for France.
They're all the same, essentially.
Pick the one that you're
most familiar with.
So I'm going to choose BISAC,
and my book is about art,
and it's tattooing.
It's not vampires or something
crazy like that like Kristi
was talking about earlier.
You'll notice that I have this
primary checkbox marked here.
That's important to check for one genre.
That's going to be the primary
category that we apply to your book,
and your book will appear under
that category in the store.
You're welcome to provide
as many as you'd like,
but only one primary per category system.
So let's move on to the third tab,
authors.
I've already put in two authors here,
but you can add as many as you'd like.
These are roles like editor, illustrator,
author, contributor, et cetera.
You'll notice that I only
have one selected as primary,
so only one will appear in the
store as the author of the book.
If I want to have more
than one author as primary,
I would add another author.
So I'm going to add myself,
because I did a lot on this book.
So I put in my first and last name,
and then we have this
thing called sort name.
And sort name provides us the
information to be able to order
the book in the bookstore and
also on the user's bookshelf when
they decide to order by author.
So this is generally last
name comma first name.
And I'm a primary author.
It's as easy as that.
So let's move on to the fourth tab,
target audience.
So I've already added
some criteria to the book.
I have interest age and years.
It's 13 and up.
It's meant for adults,
very straightforward.
But again, this really helps us to market
and merchandise your book.
So if you have a title that's targeted
at young adults or juvenile fiction,
which is the K12 set,
you want to make sure that we
have the age information that's
appropriate for your book.
Next, let's move on to related products.
This is interesting for you if you
have a print version of your book,
or if you have other books in a series.
You provide us those ISBNs here,
and the users can search
for the ISBN in the store.
It also works for the ISBN that
you provide for your book itself.
So if they go into a physical store,
they see a book, they get the ISBN,
the title, whatever,
they can come back to the iBookstore,
search for it, and find your book.
So this is a good thing to do
to help promote your title.
And lastly with the metadata,
let's look at rights and pricing.
You may be familiar with
this in the land of apps,
but we do things a
little differently here.
We actually ask that you provide
pricing for your book per country.
So you have to add each country
individually to the title.
I've already added two,
but I want to show you
something that makes it a little
bit easier to manage that.
And that's called Add Territory Group.
It's this button right at the
bottom of my country lists.
If I were to click on that,
it provides a list of territory groups,
and I can add a new one.
I commonly sell my books in Canada,
France, and, oh, let's say,
Czech Republic.
So those are the normal book
countries in which I sell.
So I'm going to save this.
and it adds it to my list.
So if I choose it,
it will automatically apply those
countries to my book to make it
nice convenience for you when
you're adding new countries.
I don't want to go through adding pricing
for all these countries right now,
so I'm going to remove
them for the sake of time.
So that's basically all you
need to do for metadata side.
Let's look at assets,
the second tab at the top.
I've already added an EPUB file here,
so I don't need to add another one.
But note that we also on the right
have the publication preview,
which Kristi touched on earlier.
We automatically create
previews for books for EPUBs.
If it's a text-based EPUB or a flowing,
we take 5% of the total word
count and make a preview for you.
If it's a fixed layout,
we take 5% of the total page count
and provide a preview for you as well.
That may not represent your
book in the way you'd like to
represent it for your customer.
For example, in shorter books,
the copyright page in front
matter has a lot of words on it,
those two pieces.
So your preview may actually
end up being just the copyright
page and the first page of text.
It's not very helpful for your customers.
So you really want to use this
as an opportunity to market your
book for your customers and create
something that's going to show off
your book in the best possible way.
So let's move on to the
second part of assets,
cover art.
Kristi's already touched on this.
It's 1,400 pixels and the
smallest side is what we require.
Just make sure it's
eye-catching and grabbing.
And finally, screenshots.
You can provide up to five.
You can also use the iPad resolution.
You're welcome to shave off the 20-pixel
status bar at the top should you desire,
which I have done for
all of these images.
It looks a little bit
jazzier in the store,
so I recommend it.
We also take the new iPad resolution,
so it's 40 pixels for
the status bar there.
Now let's move on to
delivery and validation.
And when you click on that tab,
it actually validates all of
the metadata and everything
that you've added to your book.
You notice that I have one error.
I forgot to provide a language.
If I double-click on that,
it takes me to the box where
that error is and allows me
to enter in what I'm missing.
For language, I can just type it in.
It's a book in English.
I head over to delivery again,
and it says it validates correctly.
I've done my job.
So I can click on the deliver button,
and away it goes.
We don't want to wait for that,
so I'm going to move on to show you
what it looks like in iTunes Connect.
So here again, you're probably very
familiar with iTunes Connect.
It's the same as apps,
but a little bit different.
You still come here for your
sales and trends reporting.
You come here for your financial
sales data and all of that.
But we've changed a few things for books.
So to show you that,
let me go into the manage your
book section on the right.
And I've expired.
So let me log back in here.
Go back to the "Manage
Your Book" section.
You notice that my book is already here.
This recent activity, again,
just like apps,
is the most recently delivered or
anything that we've touched recently.
So I'm going to click on Life on Earth.
You notice here that it shows the status,
that it's not on two stores.
And if I want more details on that,
I click on that,
and it shows that those two
countries that I had selected,
Australia and United States,
it's not for sale in.
If I were to click on See Details,
it pops up the reasoning at the bottom.
I have to go sign my contract,
apparently.
Now, we recommend that you keep
coming here and checking up
on the status of your book.
It provides the most up-to-date
information of what's
happening through the process.
And also, if there's tickets or
any issues that we find,
we flag them here for you.
So finally,
as you notice on the right-hand side,
I can view more details or
even edit rights and pricing.
So if I want to add any more countries,
I can come into iTunes Connect.
You can also do that in iTunes
Producer and re-deliver.
Either way is absolutely fine.
So we want to encourage you to sell in
as many markets as possible where you
actually have rights for your titles.
We have 32 markets around the world.
Use every single one of them.
Even if you sell one
more copy of your book,
you make a little bit extra
money and get a little bit more
notoriety for your next title.
And be sure that you create
a really good description,
a grabbing and captivating sample,
a great cover,
and interesting screenshots to maximize
your sales as much as possible.
Thank you.
Thank you, Ryan.
So, so far we've talked about
what's possible with books,
and we've even delivered
a book to the store.
So to tie it all together,
we wanted to close by talking
to you a little bit about how
you can grow your business once
you've begun delivering books.
So the first thing to
say is market your books.
Don't take the philosophy,
if you build it, they will come.
You need to be out there
telling people about your book.
And in iTunes Connect,
we give you a marketing and affiliate
kit to help you begin that process.
So first off, become an affiliate.
You know, I'm your fan.
I come to your site.
You drive me to the iBookstore
so that I can make a purchase.
And essentially,
because I came in through your site,
you earn a commission on that sale.
So.
Become an affiliate.
And if you're interested
in the affiliates program,
there's another session about that here
at the conference to tell you more.
Link to the iBookstore.
You know, I'm your fan,
I'm really excited
about buying your book,
but don't make me work for it.
Don't make me come and
search the store to find it.
Take me to your book.
Link directly to your book in the store.
You can even take advantage of our
widget builder so that you can design
a really beautiful link for your book.
And again,
the instructions on how to do this,
the link to widget builder is included
in that marketing and affiliates kit.
Publicize your book
with redemption codes.
Now, you guys are familiar with
this on the iBookstore side,
but the iBookstore also offers
redemption codes for publishers.
So you're able to give away up to
50 copies of your book to reviewers,
to people who are influential,
who are going to be able
to help market your book.
Definitely take advantage
of this feature.
Generate pre-orders.
Now this is different than the app store.
You're able to place your books
on sale up to one year in advance
of their publication date.
You're able to begin
building buzz for your book,
getting the excitement going.
And actually,
this is a great way to help your
books chart because all of that sale,
all of that sales volume that
builds up before the on-sale date,
posts on the on-sale date.
So you should absolutely
take advantage of pre-orders.
And of course, go global.
I've talked about it.
Ryan's talked about it.
You know, don't make assumptions
about your readers.
Don't assume that
because I live in Norway,
I don't want to read a book
that's written in Spanish.
If you have the rights
to sell into a market,
you absolutely should be
selling in that market.
So go global.
So what have we talked
about this morning?
I know we're coming to
the end of the full hour.
So just as a quick recap,
sign up for the free free free
free free first then create.
Remember that you want to take advantage
of those book creation resources that
are available to you in iTunes Connect.
iBooks supports flowing books,
fixed layout books, multi-touch books.
You want to make sure that you've done
your research and figured out which one
is the best fit for you editorially.
Then, so you've chosen the book type
that best fits your story.
You're using Apple tools
to build your books.
You want to keep thinking
about that reader.
Just keep them in the front of your mind.
Take a walk in their shoes
at every step along the way.
Go global, I think that's enough said,
and market your books.
So I'd like to leave you today
with a comment from Stephen King.
Now, Stephen King has sold more than 350
million copies of his books worldwide.
So he's arguably one of the most
successful authors of our time.
And King writes,
books are a uniquely portable magic.
Now, I've loved books since
I was a very little girl,
so I definitely agree with him.
But you guys are also well
acquainted with magic.
You create it and you bring it to
the App Store each and every day.
So what our team would like to say
to you is we invite you to bring
your creativity and your insights
to the iBookstore as well so that
you can become a bookseller with us.
So to get you started on your journey,
we've included links to many of the
resources that we've discussed today,
and you'll be able to access
these after the conference.
And again, remember what I said,
this is just the first of
five sessions about books.
The next one comes up
in about 15 minutes,
Building Books with iBooks Author.
So if you want to learn
more about book instruction,
make sure to take advantage
of these sessions.
And also,
keep an eye out for this affiliate
session to learn more about how
you can earn a commission on sales.
You guys have been fantastic.
Thank you so much for your time,
and I hope that you'll have
a great rest of the week.